# wnt-egfr-project
During my bachelors degree I worked on a research project that combined biology and physics. In this project we modeled biological systems utilizing mathematical equations. In order to use the model reduction programs that my professor wrote we needed to provide the mass action kinetic equations to the program. Each equation effects the other in its creation which would make doing the equations by hand near impossible for complex systems. My job was to create a Python script that automated the equations. Below is a description of what each Python file in the repository

The MyNetwork4.py file creates the equations for the biological network. The actual network can be found in the image provided in the repository called Wnt_B-Catenin_Diagram.pdf. Each line connecting the molecules in the diagram represents a reaction that occurs in the biological system. The arrows represent an activation reaction while the plunger symbol represents an inhibitory reaction. Some of the molecules also can combine and form new larger compounds which also needs to be specified in a special way in the equations. In MyNetwork4.py the network is contained in an array that is parsed with a function called NetworkToReactions in the WriteEquationsNetwork2.py file. Each item in the array in the MyNetwork4.py has the two molecules that start the reaction and the reaction type. In short this function takes an item from the array provided in the MyNetwork4.py file and decides what the reactants and the products are of the reaction and puts them into two separate arrays. With the two arrays that hold the reactants and products of the reaction will then be used as inputs to the function ParseReactions in the WriteEquations.py which will generate a dictionary that holds each molecule in the reaction with its accompanying equation.
